So in this section, we did a lot of things.
The first thing we look at was the basics of compose, project and function so that we can situate ourselves
as we progress in our learning process here.
And of course, we created a very simple money counting app, which the main idea was to show you how
things are constructed or how to put together a very simple application, but give you the foundation
of how compose works, how composable functions work, how we call composable functions inside of how
the compose functions.
So how to simply structure your compose applications?
OK.
And of course, we look at modifiers, which is a way of us to customize our compose widgets.
And there is so much you can do with modifiers, and we'll continue obviously building upon this concept
as we move forward in this course.
We talked about basic layouts surface, which we said it is the main and the most primitive traditional
canvas that we can manipulate and use it to add other widgets on top box and column and so forth.
So we also learned that in compose, you can make anything clickable, meaning you can respond to a
click event, a tap event.
Not only buttons receive click events, but anything really can also receive a click event through modifiers.
And of course, we talked about state and compose, which is a very important topic because the whole
idea in compose is to make sure that we dissociate this direct tinkering or updating of the state of
widgets directly using setters and so forth.
So state allows us to do all sorts of things, but mainly to decouple this dependency between the user
interface and the logic.
But the main goal really is to have one source of truth in our project through states.
And with that, we really dove into the imperative and declarative approach the differences and advantage
of those imperative, meaning the older quote unquote way of creating apps in Android.
And we learned that the industry now is favoring more.
It declares approach the clarity approach.
You are declaring what you want to see on a screen and let data be the reactor data being the thing
that will allow the function.
In this case, the computer functions to react and to describe themselves as they were supposed to do.
So the data is the ingredient, if you will, that makes this declarative approach even better.
We talked about state hosting again, which is a way in which we need to remove the state from a composing
function to the calling function.
That way, that way, we decoupled the state with a composable, making that composable function more
usable and easy to manage.
And of course, we had to define this very important aspect of compose, which is called recomposition.
Composition is the process of calling your composable function again when inputs change, which again,
is the whole idea behind a declarative approach in the beautiful composition is that when that happens,
we are only targeting.
Or I should say, the compose compiler is only targeting the widget or the compose or function that
needs to recomposition, that needs to be refreshed, if you will anything else around it.
If it doesn't need it to refresh itself, it won't be just targets the one widget or to the painting
that needs to change if data changes, which is amazing because now we are making sure that we don't
run into memory issues because we compose or refreshing the whole screen.
Every time something change, it takes a lot of memory and a lot of computing power.
And so the way compose works with recomposition, it makes it way easier and more memory efficient.
Now one thing I have to say that these concepts this paradigm shift from imperative to declarative approach
of building applications.
It can be very daunting at first, or at least it can be very hard to grasp that because the concepts
are hard to grasp, but because it's a shift of paradigm shift of way of thinking about building apps,
right?
So I encourage you to really take the time to watch the videos if you need to, because remember, this
is video quality, which means you can watch as many times as you need.
And really, if you hone in and understand this concept, you're going to have a better time building
compose apps because these concepts are the base of everything we're going to be learning now forward.
OK?
I'm very excited, as you can tell, and I will see you in the next section.